Add WebRTC Signaling spec (#88)
waku-org/specs: standards/application/webrtc.md

## Terminology

- **Peer / Participant**: A node or user participating in the protocol (each running a Waku client capable of WebRTC). In a given connection setup, one peer will act as the initiator (the one starting the WebRTC handshake) and the other as the responder (the one receiving a connection offer and answering it). These roles are per-session and not fixed; any peer may initiate a new connection to any other as long as both run the protocol.
- **Initiator**: The peer that begins the signaling handshake by sending an offer (equivalent to “calling party” in a call scenario).
- **Responder**: The peer that receives an offer and chooses whether to accept (answer) or refuse it (equivalent to “called party” in a call scenario).
- **Session**: A single WebRTC connection attempt (and, if accepted, the resulting WebRTC connection) between two peers. Each session is identified by a unique session ID generated by the initiator. All signaling messages related to that session carry this ID.
- **SDP**: Session Description Protocol, used in WebRTC to describe session capabilities (offers and answers).

> - **ICE**: Interactive Connectivity Establishment, the mechanism for finding network paths between peers. Trickle ICE (as defined in RFC 8838) is used, meaning ICE candidates are exchanged incrementally as they are found, rather than all at once.

Reviewer: Link to RFC 8838

- **ICE Candidate**: A network address (IP:port, possibly through NAT) that one peer can use to try to connect to the other. Candidates are gathered and sent via signaling for connectivity checks.
- **WebRTC Data Channel**: A bidirectional data channel within the WebRTC peer connection for arbitrary data exchange. (Data channels and media streams are not sent over Waku; they are negotiated via this protocol and then sent directly peer-to-peer.)

## Content Topic Usage

Signaling messages in this protocol are carried as Waku messages on a designated content topic. To facilitate targeted delivery and privacy, each peer **SHOULD** listen on a content topic specific to itself, and initiators **SHOULD** send signaling messages to the content topic associated with the intended responder. For example, an application **MAY** derive a peer-specific topic by incorporating the peer’s ID or a derivative of it. One simple scheme is:

```text

> /waku-webrtc/1/<peer-id>/proto

Reviewer: Not great for privacy to expose the peer id.

Also, maybe better to not even re-use the peer id, and instead possibly just use a new identifier? Does it have to be the peer id?

```

Where `<peer-id>` is a representation of the target peer’s Waku/libp2p peer ID (e.g. a base58 or base32 encoding). Using such a scheme, each peer subscribes (or registers a filter) to their own topic (containing their ID) and will receive only signaling messages directed to them. The initiator can publish an Offer to the responder’s topic, and the responder’s Answer (or Reject) can be published to the initiator’s topic.

> **Privacy considerations:** Directly using a unique identifier (like a full peer ID) in the content topic can potentially allow observers to correlate messages with a specific user, since Waku relay or filter nodes will see the content topic of messages. To mitigate this, implementations **MAY** employ strategies such as hashing the peer ID or using bucketed topics (e.g. using a prefix of a hash of the peer ID) so that multiple peers share the same content topic, increasing anonymity. Another approach is to simply use a single, shared content topic for all WebRTC signaling (as was done in the Waku Phone prototype), embedding addressing info inside the message payload. A unified topic maximizes anonymity (all peers’ signals look alike) at the cost of efficiency (all clients receive all offers and must filter them). The choice of content topic strategy should balance privacy, scalability, and simplicity for the given application. In any case, encryption (discussed below) is critical so that only the intended recipient can read the signaling content, regardless of topic structure.

Reviewer: Yes. I'd suggest to start with a fix content topic at this point in time. We can extend to scale later.

> For the purposes of this specification, we assume a content topic prefix of:

Reviewer: ok, then remove the content topic with peer id

## Wire Protocol

Signaling messages are encoded in a single Protocol Buffers message type. All messages share this format, distinguished by a message type field. The protobuf schema (proto3) is defined below:

```proto
syntax = "proto3";

package waku.webrtc.v1;

message WakuWebRTCMessage {
  enum MessageType {
    OFFER = 0;       // Initiator to responder: proposes a new WebRTC connection
    ANSWER = 1;      // Responder to initiator: accepts and answers an OFFER
    CANDIDATE = 2;   // Either peer to the other: conveys an ICE candidate (Trickle ICE, RFC 8838)
    REJECT = 3;      // Responder to initiator: rejects an OFFER (connection refused)
    BUSY = 4;        // Responder to initiator: rejects an OFFER because the responder is busy
    END = 5;         // Either peer to the other: terminates an ongoing session (hang-up or cancel)
    // (Future extensions could add ACK or other message types if needed)
  }

  MessageType message_type = 1;
  bytes session_id = 2;               // Unique identifier for this session (generated by initiator)
  optional bytes initiator_peer_id = 10;  // Waku peer ID of the initiator (caller)

>   optional bytes responder_peer_id = 11;  // Waku peer ID of the responder (callee)

Reviewer: Does it have to be peer ids, can't it be an arbitrary ids agreed between applications out of band?

- **session_id**: A random identifier for the session, generated by the initiator and included in all messages related to that session. It **MUST** be sufficiently unique (e.g. a UUID or 128-bit random value) such that concurrent sessions do not collide. Peers use this to tie incoming messages to the correct connection context.
- **initiator_peer_id** *(optional)*: The libp2p/Waku peer ID of the initiating peer. This can be included in the Offer message, and subsequent messages **MAY** include it for clarity. It is mainly for informational or validation purposes, since the initiator is implicitly the sender of the initial Offer.
- **responder_peer_id** *(optional)*: The peer ID of the responding peer (the target of the Offer). In an Offer, this identifies the intended recipient. In responses, it may be included as well. This is also primarily for information/routing confirmation, since the responder is typically the recipient of the initial Offer message.
- **webrtc_data** *(optional)*: Binary payload carrying the WebRTC signaling data when applicable. The content depends on `message_type`:

>   - **For `OFFER`**: this field contains the WebRTC SDP Offer generated by the initiator (`RTCPeerConnection.createOffer()`), encoded as bytes. Typically this is the UTF-8 encoded SDP text (it **MAY** be compressed or binary encoded if both sides agree, but plain SDP text is simplest).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **webrtc_data** *(optional)*: Binary payload carrying the WebRTC signaling data when applicable. The content depends on `message_type`:
  - **For `OFFER`**: this field contains the WebRTC SDP Offer generated by the initiator (`RTCPeerConnection.createOffer()`), encoded as bytes straight from UTF-8..
```

be clear on the expected behaviour. If you want to open to compression, mention it as a potential improvement.

  - **For `ANSWER`**: this field contains the WebRTC SDP Answer generated by the responder (`RTCPeerConnection.createAnswer()`), encoded in the same manner as the offer.
  - **For `CANDIDATE`**: this field contains an ICE candidate to be added. The candidate can be encoded as the JSON or string representation of the ICE candidate (as returned by the WebRTC API). Each `CANDIDATE` message **SHOULD** carry a single ICE candidate. (Multiple `CANDIDATE` messages will be sent as new candidates are gathered.) Both peers may send `CANDIDATE` messages after sending or receiving an Offer/Answer, as they gather ICE candidates.
  - **For `REJECT`, `BUSY`, and `END`**: this field is unused and **SHOULD** be omitted (or empty). These message types carry no additional data beyond what is implied by their type.

All multi-byte fields (IDs, SDP, etc.) are transmitted as bytes. Text values like SDP can be UTF-8 encoded to bytes. Peers are responsible for serializing and deserializing the SDP and ICE data to/from this message format.

> Because messages are sent via Waku, the `WakuWebRTCMessage` will itself be the payload of a Waku envelope (`WakuMessage`). That outer envelope’s `contentTopic` must be set appropriately (as discussed above), and the payload **SHOULD** be encrypted so that only the intended recipient can decode it. Waku supports both symmetric and asymmetric payload encryption. For example, if the initiator knows the responder’s static public key (from their peer ID), the Offer could be asymmetrically encrypted for that key so only the responder can decrypt it. Alternatively, the application can establish a symmetric key (out-of-band or via a separate handshake) and use that to encrypt all signaling messages for that session. At a minimum, messages **SHOULD** be encrypted using Waku Message Version 1 (which provides Whisper-style symmetric or asymmetric encryption). This ensures that even if an adversary observes the content topic or intercepts messages, they cannot read sensitive information like IP addresses in ICE candidates or session descriptions. (If no encryption key is provided, the signaling messages would be sent in plaintext, which is **NOT** recommended.)

Reviewer: I would not go in detail re encryption, Just say it must be encrypted.

## Signaling Flow

> This section describes the typical flow of messages to establish and terminate a WebRTC connection between two peers. The protocol is symmetric in that either peer can play the initiator role at any time to start a new session. Implementations should be prepared to handle incoming connection offers while not interfering with any ongoing sessions (e.g., if a peer is already in a session, it might reject new incoming offers or signal busy).

Reviewer: It's been already mention that any peer can be the initiator, let's avoid redundant information in specs.

Below, we outline each message type and its role in the flow:

### 1. Offer (Connection Initiation)

**Sent by:** The Initiator (to the Responder).

When a peer (the initiator) wants to establish a WebRTC connection to another peer, it begins by creating a new WebRTC offer and sending an `OFFER` message over Waku to the target peer:

- The initiator generates a fresh `session_id` (random unique bytes) to identify this connection attempt.

> - The initiator obtains an SDP offer by creating a WebRTC peer connection object and calling `createOffer()`, then calling `setLocalDescription()` on that peer connection. The SDP offer (typically a large text blob containing media capabilities, supported codecs, etc.) is placed into the `webrtc_data` field of the `OFFER` message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The initiator obtains an SDP offer by creating a WebRTC peer connection object and calling `RTCPeerConnection.createOffer()`, then calling `RTCPeerConnection.setLocalDescription()` on that peer connection. The SDP offer (typically a large text blob containing media capabilities, supported codecs, etc.) is placed into the `webrtc_data` field of the `OFFER` message.
```

- **Encryption:** All signaling messages **SHOULD** be encrypted so that only the intended peer can read them. Waku payload encryption (Message Version 1) supports both asymmetric (per-recipient public key) and symmetric encryption. For example, if peer A knows peer B’s Waku public key (identity key), A can encrypt the `OFFER` for B using asymmetric encryption (so only B can decrypt). B’s response can be encrypted to A’s public key. If exchanging public keys is not feasible, a shared symmetric key can be agreed upon (through a pre-shared secret or a Diffie-Hellman exchange via some other secure channel) and then used to encrypt/decrypt all messages for that session (or even for all sessions between A and B). Without encryption, an attacker observing Waku network traffic could glean who is trying to connect to whom (from content topics or meta-data) and read the SDP which could leak IP addresses or fingerprints. Thus, encryption is a **MUST** for privacy in most use cases.

> - **Authentication:** The protocol as specified does not include an explicit authentication or verification step of the peers’ identity beyond knowing the peer ID/public key. If a Waku message is encrypted to a peer’s key, that provides assurance it came from someone with the corresponding private key (since only they could craft a message you can decrypt). However, peers should still be mindful of potential impersonation. Applications that require stronger identity verification may layer additional authentication (e.g., a challenge/response or signing the SDP).

Reviewer: is the peer id used for authentication at all? I do not see any signature being included.

- **Denial-of-Service (DoS):** Because this protocol is open (anyone can send an `OFFER` to a peer’s topic if they know the peer ID), there is potential for spam or DoS by flooding offers. Implementers should also consider local policies: e.g., rate-limit incoming offers, require some form of introduction or pre-shared contact to accept offers, etc. An implementation might mitigate this by screening offers (for example, only allow incoming from known peers or use a reputation system).

> - **Privacy of Content Topics:** If using peer-specific content topics (as recommended for efficiency), note that the content topic itself reveals a link to a peer’s ID. A third-party node can see that someone is sending messages to `/waku-webrtc/1/<peer-id>/proto`. This could be used to infer that `<peer-id>` is active or being contacted. It can also link the initiator and responder if the timing of messages on their respective topics is observed. To reduce this metadata leakage, implementations can use the techniques mentioned (topic hashing/bucketing or a shared topic for all signals). Additionally, Waku’s Relay protocol (gossip) provides some recipient anonymity by not revealing to intermediate nodes exactly which peer is the recipient, whereas Filter/Store protocols require telling a server the topics of interest (hence revealing the peer’s content topic subscription). Using a generic content topic for all WebRTC signaling (and filtering at the client level by peer IDs inside the message) maximizes anonymity but at a performance cost.

Reviewer: just propose a unique content topic.

> - **Ephemeral Signaling:** Signaling messages typically have short usefulness (only during call setup). It’s recommended to mark them as ephemeral (non-persistent) so that Waku nodes do not store them beyond a short time. This reduces the risk of someone later retrieving historical call attempts via the Store protocol. It also means if a peer was offline during a call attempt, they might never see the offer (which is acceptable, akin to a “missed call”). If an application did want a “missed connection” notification, it could deliberately not mark the message ephemeral; but this should be weighed against privacy. In most cases, real-time connections should be ephemeral.

Reviewer: >  This reduces the risk of someone later retrieving historical call attempts via the Store protoco

How can they do that if it's encrypted?
